---
title: "SQL Saturday Pensacola"
date: "2011-06-01"
categories: 
  - "sql-server"
---

I know it has been almost a month since I posted last and this is not really a "real" post, but I assure you that new content is on the way.  I have a couple things in the works that I hope to post this week.  It has been a crazy month and I have been really busy, so I apologize.  I'm in the middle of moving some Access databases off Access and ran into some pitfalls I want to warn you about in case you are  doing the same thing and I also have a little bit of SharePoint content that you may find useful.  But for now... If you happen to be in the area of Pensacola this weekend, say Saturday, then you should hop on over to Pensacola State College, Main Campus, 1000 College Blvd, Pensacola, FL 32503.  That just happens to be the location of SQL Saturday that will be held this weekend in Pensacola, FL.  Looks like we have another great lineup this year for Pensacola so come out and get your free learning on.  You can grab the event schedule from the [SQL Saturday 77](https://sqlsaturday.com/) event page.  Below is all the important information.  Depending on what you are looking to see you can catch Devin Knight doing an Introduction to Data Warehousing at 8:30 AM, myself at 9:30 AM discussing Dynamic SSIS, or head over to Pulp SQL featuring both Devin and myself. There was a slight change in plans, so if you happen to get some hype from SQL Chicken (Jorge Segarra) about that session, it's not going to be exactly what he and I planned originally... you'll have to head to SQL Saturday South Florida to see that one.  But let me assure you, it will be legendary when it happens!  Devin and I will discuss some of the short falls of projects we have worked on in the past so that you can hopefully avoid those same mistakes. **What:** This is a one day training event for SQL Server DBAs and Developer professionals and those wanting to get some intensive technical learning on. **Why**: It is a great opportunity to learn from people who have been there and to network with other professionals doing the same thing you are doing.  Free training that can set yourself apart from others! **When:** Saturday, June 4, 2011. [Register](https://sqlsaturday.com/) online now to reserve your spot now. Attendee check-in will begin at 8:00am until 8:45am with opening comments from 8:45am to 9:00am and the first sessions beginning at 9:15am. **Where:** Pensacola State College, Main Campus, 1000 College Blvd, Pensacola, FL 32504. Building 17, The Baraco Center for Science and Advanced Technology. **How:** All you have to do to get involved is [Register](https://sqlsaturday.com/) online to reserve your spot. Show up and attend the sessions that you like. Hope to see you there.  I'll be there all day, so please come find me and chat!
