---
title: "Upcoming Presentation - Space Coast SQL/.Net User Group"
date: "2015-09-02"
categories: 
  - "business-intelligence"
  - "speaking"
---

If you happen to be in the central Florida or Daytona area head over to Melbourne on September 10th to see me! I'll be speaking at the newly merged Space Coast SQL/.Net User Group on Power Query. This topic is easy for anyone in SQL, business intelligence, .Net or even every day users to understand. I'll show you some awesome things you can do with Power Query and how to mash data together from many different sources. If that's not enough to get you to come out, then know this...they meet at Sonny's BBQ, so the food is going to be awesome and free! Send me a comment or a Tweet ([@BradleySchacht](http://twitter.com/bradleyschacht)) if you have any questions about the user group meeting. **Topic:** Introduction to Power Query **Where:** [Sonny's BBQ](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Sonny's+BBQ/@28.2304695,-80.7138885,15.75z/data=!4m2!3m1!1s0x0:0x6c0d1eded3668f60) 150 Sherrif Dr. Melbourne, FL 32940 **When:** Thursday September 10, 2015 (6:30PM - 8:00PM) **Abstract:** Power Query is a free add-in for Excel 2010 and up that provide users an easy way to discover, combine and refine data all within the familiar Excel interface. With Power Query you can now combine and transform data from a variety of unusual data sources all within Excel, which would have previously required a complex ETL job. Join Bradley and learn how you can use Power Query to take your Self-Service BI solutions to the next level. **About Me:** Bradley Schacht, is a Senior Consultant and Trainer for Pragmatic Works. His experience on the Microsoft platform includes data warehouse design, Azure Data Warehouse and SQL Database, APS (Analytic Platform System), business intelligence solution for SharePoint SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, and migrations and conversions. His background in creating custom solutions for clients and partners provides great experience for delivering real-world value through his courses. Bradley uses this experience to make the topics real for those he’s working with and teaching.
